### Abstract

In the present era of globalization and interconnectivity, diversity has become a prominent focal point, especially within the corporate realm. Some studies explored the link between diversity and a company's performance, utilizing organizational-level statistics; others turned their focus on leadership-level statistics (see References). In our study, we explored the correlation between leadership level diversity and its impact on the stock market performance of corporations.  
The main objective of this study is to uncover what diversity and centrality metrics within a firm’s leadership have significant correlations to firm performance, and if it's possible to outperform a baseline market return with an understanding of those metrics. In this study, diversity refers to the variances in ethnicity, gender, and age within a firm’s leadership, and centrality refers to the relative importance of a leader within a firm, based on their network relationships and influence within the organization.
Guided by the Quant Equity Group (QEG) of Vanguard, which oversees about $50 billion in active systematic strategies primarily invested in public equities, our team conducted data collection to identify and gather relevant datasets on executive directors, financial performance metrics, and market performance. Using metrics such as the Herfindahl–Hirschman index for diversity, age range standard deviation, and centrality measurements, we generated a dataset to represent a firm’s leadership diversity, centrality, and then paired with its performance on the stock market over a period of 15 years.  
Our analysis suggests that certain leadership diversity and centrality measures did have statistically significant correlations with the forward returns of firms. However, due to the scope of the project and time constraints, these results merit further studies on the multifaceted phenomena of diversity vs performance.   
  

### Project Scope and Objectives  
The main objective of our project was to explore the potential correlations between a firm’s overall share price returns and its board of directors/c-suite diversity and centrality.  
The scope of the project was limited to two main parts. The first, and also the more challenging and time consuming part, is defining, quantifying, and collecting data on centrality and diversity metrics for each firm’s leadership circle. The second part was in analyzing the potential correlations between these diversity and centrality metrics and firm financial performance.   
This study therefore requires data from both financial and biographical sources.
Financial data needed to consist of a given firm’s performance on the stock market, measured in the change in price, as well as a suite of financial metrics, ratios, and general information.   
Biographical data, on the other hand, were much more complex. We needed to derive not only leadership centrality information, but also information in relation to ethnicity, age, and gender. Furthermore we also had to decide how to define and quantify multiple and diverse diversity metrics. 
Due to the nature of corporate reporting, the major difficulty in data collection is in accurately determining the demographic makeup of both C-suite executives and the governing members of the board over time. While on the other hand, thanks to the nature of corporate reporting, our team is able to accurately determine the financial performance and make up of any given publicly traded corporation.   
This dichotomy provides us with two different avenues of data collection: financial and biographical data. 
Finally, we need a dataset large enough to provide statistically significant results. This means the project has to encompass as many firms as possible and the longest period of time within the limitations of our chosen dataset.  
Our data was collected from different sources. Biographical data was collected via the ISS: Institutional Shareholder Services Directors database, while financial data was collected via the CRSP and COMPUSTAT databases, and then subsequently joined together.  
Using this data, our team was able to create a target variable, expressed through stock returns; and a feature set, consisting of firm financial performance metrics, diversity and centrality measures, as well as other information that is determined to be important to our analysis. 
This dataset is inclusive of 1500 firms over a 15 year period of time. See the data dictionary located in the appendix [Table A].
